headword

abandon
The study showed a deep fear among the elderly of being abandoned to the care of strangers.
abstract
The research shows that pre-school children are capable of thinking in abstract terms.
academy
a police/military academy
access
Many divorced fathers only have access to their children at weekends (= they are allowed by law to see them only at weekends).
accommodate
The aircraft is capable of accommodating 28 passengers.
accompany
Each young person must be accompanied by an adult.
accumulate
We have accumulated a great amount of evidence.
accurate
The cost is an accurate reflection of the quality of our products.
achieve
achieve something through (doing) something Course objectives were achieved through a range of activities.
acknowledge
acknowledge something to be, have, etc. something It is generally acknowledged to be true.
acquire
I have recently acquired a taste for olives.
adapt
adapt yourself to something It took him a while to adapt himself to his new surroundings.
adequate
adequate to do something training that is adequate to meet the future needs of industry
adjacent
There is a row of houses immediately adjacent to the factory.
adjust
adjust something to something Adjust your language to the age of your audience.
adult
The obesity rate among adults has actually increased.
advocate
advocate of something/somebody a staunch advocate of free speech
affect
The south of the country was worst affected by the drought.
aggregate
The three smaller parties gained an aggregate of 25 per cent of the vote.
aid
international aid workers
albeit
He finally agreed, albeit reluctantly, to help us.
allocate
allocate something to do something Millions have been allocated to improve students' performance.
alter
Fame hasn't really altered her.
alternative
alternative for somebody This treatment is the only alternative for some patients.
ambiguous
Her account was deliberately ambiguous.
amend
Parliament will vote to amend the constitution.
analogy
analogy (with something) There are no analogies with any previous legal cases.
analyse
analyse what, how, etc… We need to analyse what went wrong.
annual
She organized this year's annual Christmas dinner dance.
anticipate
it is anticipated that… It is anticipated that inflation will stabilize at 3 per cent.
apparent
apparent to somebody The consequences of our actions are not immediately apparent to us.
append
The principal has the right to append comments to the final report.
appreciate
The sound quality was poor so we couldn't fully appreciate the music.
approach
approach for doing something Will this be a successful approach for providing high-tech offices?
appropriate
All personnel were trained at levels appropriate to the needs of each job.
approximate
Construction was completed at an approximate cost of $4.1 million.
arbitrary
He makes unpredictable, arbitrary decisions.
area
John is the London area manager.
aspect
The consultancy gives advice to manufacturers on the health and safety aspects of their products.
assemble
He tried to assemble his thoughts.
assess
We are trying to assess how well the system works.
assign
The teacher assigned each of the children a different task.
assist
assist somebody to do something a course to assist adults to return to the labour market
assume
assume somebody/something to be/have something I had assumed him to be a Belgian.
assure
assure somebody + speech ‘He'll come back,’ Susan assured her.
attach
(figurative) They have attached a number of conditions to the agreement (= said that the conditions must be part of the agreement)
attain
attain (a) degree/standard/level/proficiency/mastery
attitude
You're taking a pretty selfish attitude over this, aren't you?
attribute
The power failure was attributed to the recent storms and high winds.
author
The report's authors point to a recent study of American college students.
authority
adult authority figures such as parents and teachers
automate
The factory is now fully automated.
available
available to somebody When will the information be made available to the public?
aware
I was aware that she was trembling.
behalf
He began a petition in behalf of the farmers.
benefit
For maximum benefit, take the tablets before meals.
bias
The article examines gender bias in our schools.
bond
bond with somebody The students formed strong bonds with each other.
brief
He died after a relatively brief period of suffering.
bulk
The great bulk of the work has now been done.
capable
He is still capable of doing the job.
capacity
They played to a capacity crowd (= one that filled all the space or seats).
category
by category You can filter the results by category.
cease
cease doing something The company ceased trading in June.
challenge
challenge to somebody/something Digital piracy continues to pose huge challenges to the industry.
channel
on a channel What's on Channel 4 tonight?
chapter
chapter on something Have you read the chapter on the legal system?
chart
in a chart Gas prices have risen over the past decade, as shown in the chart below.
chemical
changes in the chemical composition of the atmosphere
circumstance
Police are investigating the circumstances of the death of a baby boy.
cite
cite something as something He cited his heavy workload as the reason for his breakdown.
civil
There were concerns that the economic reforms might lead to civil unrest.
clarify
clarify what/how, etc… She asked him to clarify what he meant.
classic
This classic novel was first published in 1938.
clause
the second clause in the sentence
code
The code was difficult to crack.
coherent
a coherent policy for the transport system
coincide
The singer's arrival was timed to coincide with the opening of the festival.
collapse
The building had partially collapsed.
colleague
a colleague of mine from the office
commence
commence to do something Operators commenced to build pipelines in 1862.
comment
(especially British English) What she said was fair comment (= a reasonable critcism).
commission
The government appointed an independent commission to investigate the causes of the disaster.
commit
The men are being held on suspicion of conspiracy to commit armed robbery.
commodity
basic agricultural commodities
communicate
communicate how/what, etc… They failed to communicate what was happening and why.
community
Our aim is to serve the community.
compatible
three different, yet entirely compatible programs
compensate
Nothing can compensate for the loss of a loved one.
compile
The figures were compiled from a survey of 2  000 schoolchildren.
complement
The flavours in the dish complement each other perfectly.
complex
a highly complex situation
component
Component failure was the cause of the accident.
compound
The air smelled like a compound of diesel and petrol fumes.
comprehensive
comprehensive insurance (= covering all risks)
comprise
be comprised of somebody/something The committee is comprised of representatives from both the public and private sectors.
compute
These measurements can be used to compute the average size.
conceive
The dam project was originally conceived in 1977.
concentrate
concentrate something on doing something I decided to concentrate all my efforts on finding somewhere to live.
concept
the concept behind something the concepts behind an artist's work
conclude
+ speech ‘So it should be safe to continue,’ he concluded.
concurrent
He was imprisoned for two concurrent terms of 30 months and 18 months.
conduct
They conducted a vigorous campaign for a shorter working week.
confer
He wanted to confer with his colleagues before reaching a decision.
confine
confine yourself to (doing) something I will confine myself to looking at the period from 1900 to 1916.
confirm
it is confirmed that… It has been confirmed that an official complaint was made to the council.
conflict
She has received training in conflict resolution.
conform
conform to something He refused to conform to the local customs.
consent
without (somebody's) consent He is charged with taking a car without the owner's consent.
consequent
consequent on/upon something the responsibilities consequent upon the arrival of a new child
considerable
Considerable progress has been made in finding a cure for the disease.
consist

constant
This entrance is in constant use.
constitute
His action was interpreted as constituting a threat to the community.
constrain
The company said that it was constrained to raise prices.
construct
construct something of something On the smaller islands, houses are often constructed of local materials.
consult
(North American English) consult with somebody (about/on something) Consult with your physician about possible treatments.
consume
25 per cent of the world’s population consumes 80 per cent of the planet’s resources.
contact
The society's website provides contact information.
contemporary
The amphitheatre is roughly contemporary with the Colosseum in Rome.
context
context for something A ceasefire is the essential context for meaningful negotiations.
contract
subject to contract The offer has been accepted, subject to contract (= the agreement is not official until the contract is signed).
contradict
contradict (somebody) + speech ‘No, it’s not,’ she contradicted (him).
contrary1
Contrary to expectations and the weather forecast, we had a fine day for the experiment.
contrast
contrast of A and B Careful contrast of the two plans shows some important differences.
contribute
contribute something to/towards something We contributed £5 000 to the earthquake fund.
controversy
The President resigned amid considerable controversy.
convene
They decided to convene an extraordinary general meeting.
converse1
The two men were conversing on music and opera.
convert
convert from something to something We've converted from oil to gas central heating.
convince
The experience convinced him that Europe was on the brink of a revolution.
cooperate
They had cooperated closely in the planning of the project.
coordinate
coordinate something with something We try to coordinate our activities with those of other groups.
core
None of the characters really gives the film an emotional core.
corporate
Their corporate headquarters are in Boston.
correspond
correspond to something The written record of the conversation doesn't correspond to (= is different from) what was actually said.
couple
I saw a couple of men get out.
create
the newly created position of executive editor
credit
The credit crisis is far from over.
criterion
criterion for something The criteria for inclusion in the book are set out clearly in the preface.
crucial
crucial in doing something The summit was crucial in shaping the reform process.
culture
The film examines the culture clash between the generations.
currency
You'll need some cash in local currency but you can also use your credit card.
cycle
by cycle They completed their journey by cycle.
data
(specialist) These data show that most cancers are detected as a result of clinical follow-up.
debate
under debate The motion under debate (= being discussed) was put to a vote.
decade
for decades The war may be short but the environmental impacts could last for decades.
decline
Her health began to decline.
deduce
deduce (from something) that, what, how, etc… Can we deduce from your silence that you do not approve?
define
define something as something Life imprisonment is defined as 60 years under state law.
definite
That's definite then, is it?
demonstrate
it is demonstrated that… It has been demonstrated that this drug is effective.
denote
A very high temperature often denotes a serious illness.
deny
deny doing something He denies knowing anything about the plot.
depress
it depresses somebody to do something It depresses me to see so many young girls smoking.
derive

design
The magazine will appear in a new design from next month.
despite
She was good at physics despite the fact that she found it boring.
detect
Do I detect a note of criticism?
deviate
He never deviated from his original plan.
device
This device allows deaf people to communicate by typing messages instead of speaking.
devote

differentiate
differentiate A (from B) I can't differentiate one variety from another.
dimension
computer design tools that work in three dimensions
diminish
diminish something The new law is expected to diminish the government's chances.
discrete
The organisms can be divided into discrete categories.
discriminate
discriminate A from B A number of features discriminate this species from others.
displace
be displaced (by somebody/something) Gradually factory workers have been displaced by machines.
display
display something to somebody She proudly displayed her certificate to her parents.
dispose
The visitors disposed themselves in a circle round the statue.
distinct
His voice was quiet but every word was distinct.
distort
The loudspeaker seemed to distort his voice.
distribute
distribute something between somebody/something The proceeds will be distributed between local charities.
diverse
My interests are very diverse.
document
a consultation/policy document
domain
things that happen outside the domain of the home
domestic
domestic flights (= to and from places within a country)
dominate
In the 1960s American styles dominated the art world.
draft
The legislation is still in draft form.
drama
a drama series set in an American dance academy
duration
a contract of three years’ duration
dynamic
She has a dynamic personality.
economy
Over the past few years, the country's economy has grown at a record pace.
edit
I had time to do a quick edit of my essay before handing it in.
element
element to something There is often a futuristic element to her writing.
eliminate
eliminate something from something This diet claims to eliminate toxins from the body.
emerge
emerge into something We emerged into bright sunlight.
emphasis
The examples we will look at have quite different emphases.
empirical
an empirical study
enable
The tool enables users to test their computer's exposure to a wide range of online threats.
encounter
I had never encountered such resistance before.
energy
He expends great energy trying to help them.
enforce
enforce something against/on somebody/something (formal or law) The creditor should be at liberty to enforce his rights against the company's property.
enhance
These latest discoveries have further enhanced our understanding of the origins of the universe.
enormous
Their house is absolutely enormous!
ensure
Rent rises were limited in order to ensure that housing remained affordable.
entity
A corporation is a separate legal entity and it shields you from personal liability for its debts.
environment
The environment minister expressed concern over pollution levels.
equate
I don't see how you can equate the two things.
equip
Rooms vary in size and come equipped with hairdryers, television and telephone.
equivalent
equivalent to something The German ‘Gymnasium’ is the closest equivalent to the grammar school in England.
erode
erode (away) The rocks have eroded away over time.
error
His attempts to arrange a party ended up as a comedy of errors (= he made so many mistakes it was funny).
establish
The new treaty establishes a free trade zone.
estate
on an estate She lives in a tower block on an estate in London.
estimate
estimate how many, large, etc… It is hard to estimate how many children have dyslexia.
ethic
He began to question the ethics of his position.
ethnic
The country is divided along ethnic lines.
evaluate
evaluate somebody/something on something Candidates are evaluated on their ability to think independently.
eventual
The village school may face eventual closure.
evident
evident in/from something The growing interest in history is clearly evident in the number of people visiting museums and country houses.
evolve
evolve something (from something) Each school must evolve its own way of working.
exceed
The price will not exceed £100.
exclude
Buses run every hour, Sundays excluded.
exhibit
exhibit (at/in…) He exhibits regularly in local art galleries.
expand
expand something into something The short film is being expanded into a full-length documentary.
expert
Don't ask me—I'm no expert!
explicit
She made some very explicit references to my personal life.
exploit
The opposition parties will always exploit government problems to their own advantage.
export
Their main export market is the United States.
expose
expose something to somebody He did not want to expose his fears and insecurity to anyone.
external
The lotion is for external use only (= only for the skin and must not be eaten).
extract
The following extract is taken from her new novel.
facilitate
Structured teaching facilitates learning.
factor
We have identified a few key factors in the project's success.
feature
The one redeeming feature (= good thing about it) of the plan was its low cost.
federal
a federal republic
fee
for a fee Users can block ads for a small monthly fee.
file
in a file I keep paper copies of all my invoices in this file.
final
I'd like to return to the final point you made.
finance
finance for something Finance for education comes from taxpayers.
finite
The world's resources are finite.
flexible
flexible about something Can you be flexible about when you take your leave?
fluctuate
The rate of inflation has been fluctuating around 4% for some time.
focus
focus something + adv./prep. We need to decide where to focus our efforts.
format
The format of the new quiz show has proved popular.
formula
This formula is used to calculate the area of a circle.
forthcoming
the band’s forthcoming UK tour
found
He was a founding editor of the journal.
foundation
without foundation The rumour is totally without foundation (= is not based on any facts).
framework
The ship's elaborate metal framework was exposed.
function
This design aims for harmony of form and function.
fund
in a fund There is currently over $200 000 in the fund.
fundamental
A fundamental change in the organization of health services was required.
furthermore
He said he had not discussed the matter with her. Furthermore, he had not even contacted her.
gender
The government is working on tackling gender inequalities in employment.
generate
Living cells generate energy from food.
generation
generation of somebody Her books have delighted generations of children.
globe
tourists from every corner of the globe
goal
The goalkeeper was injured so a defender had to go in goal.
grade
70 per cent of students achieved Grade C or above.
grant
These lands had been granted to the family in perpetuity.
guarantee
guarantee to do something We guarantee to deliver your goods within a week.
guideline
The government has drawn up guidelines on the treatment of the mentally ill.
hence
We suspect they are trying to hide something, hence the need for an independent inquiry.
hierarchy
She's quite high up in the management hierarchy.
highlight
This study highlights the fact that couples are keen to assist others.
hypothesis
There is little evidence to support these hypotheses.
identical
identical with somebody/something The name on the ticket should be identical with the one in the passport.
identify
identify somebody/something by something two species of waterbirds that can be identified by their distinctive beaks
ideology
Marxist/capitalist ideology
ignorant
Never make your students feel ignorant.
illustrate
illustrate something with something His lecture was illustrated with photos taken during the expedition.
image
in the image of somebody/something In the Bible it states that humans were created in the image of God.
immigrate
About 6.6 million people immigrated to the United States in the 1970s.
impact
a victim impact statement
implement
A new work programme for young people will be implemented.
implicate
He tried to avoid saying anything that would implicate him further.
implicit
These assumptions are implicit in his writing.
imply
it is implied that… It was implied that we were at fault.
impose
impose something on/upon something/somebody A new tax was imposed on fuel.
incentive
There is an added incentive for you to buy from our catalogue—a free gift with every purchase.
incidence
an area with a high incidence of crime
incline
incline somebody to do something His obvious sincerity inclined me to trust him.
income
higher/middle/lower income groups
incorporate
Many of your suggestions have been incorporated in the plan.
index
Author and subject indexes are available on a library database.
indicate
indicate how, what etc… Our results indicate how misleading it could be to rely on this method.
individual
between individuals Differences between individuals affect their susceptibility to disease.
induce
Nothing would induce me to take the job.
inevitable
A rise in the interest rates seems inevitable.
infer
infer that… It is reasonable to infer that the government knew about these deals.
infrastructure

inherent
an inherent weakness in the design of the machine
inhibit
Alcohol significantly inhibits the action of the drug.
initial
Her initial response was one of anger.
initiate
The government has initiated a programme of economic reform.
injure
The man was critically injured after falling from a ladder.
innovate
The company can once again innovate its way out of tough economic times.
input
input of something into something There has been a big input of resources into the project from industry.
insert
insert something between A and B She picked up a knife and inserted it between the top of the drawer and the desk.
insight
insight about something The book provides important insights about the doctor-patient relationship.
inspect
inspect something/somebody for something The plants are regularly inspected for disease.
instance
instance where… This is one of the few instances where the director does not succeed.
institute
at an institute She was a senior researcher at the institute.
instruct
instruct (somebody) + speech ‘Put it there,’ she instructed (them).
integral
integral to something Practical experience is integral to the course.
integrate
integrate A (into/with B)
integrity
a man of great integrity
intelligent
to ask an intelligent question
intense
He was startled by the intense blue of her eyes.
interact
The only thing he interacts with is his computer!
intermediate
intermediate between A and B Liquid crystals are considered to be intermediate between liquid and solid.
internal
internal doors
interpret
These results must be interpreted cautiously.
interval
He knocked on the door and after a brief interval it was opened.
intervene
intervene to do something They intervened to halt the attack.
intrinsic
intrinsic to something Small local shops are intrinsic to the town's character.
invest
She personally invested $980 000 in the company.
investigate
investigate what, how, etc… Police are investigating what happened.
invoke
It is unlikely that libel laws will be invoked.
involve
(formal) The job involves my travelling all over the country.
isolate
This decision will isolate the country from the rest of Europe.
issue
What you say is interesting, but it does not affect the question at issue here.
item
There is a maximum score of two points per test item.
job
The closure of the factory will mean the loss of over 800 jobs.
journal
in a journal The results of the study are expected to be published in a peer-reviewed journal next month.
justify
justify something Her success had justified the faith her teachers had put in her.
label
on a label The washing instructions are on the label.
labour
a fair division of labour between men and women
layer
in layers The paint is applied in layers.
lecture
at a lecture There were very few students at his lecture that morning.
legal
Campaigners have have threatened to mount a legal challenge on human rights grounds.
legislate
legislate on something The European Parliament will legislate on further integration.
levy
the trade-union political levy
liberal
liberal attitudes/views/opinions
licence
a licence agreement
likewise
He voted for the change and he expected his colleagues to do likewise.
link
link to somebody/something Many of them had no previous links to terrorism.
locate
We tried to locate the source of the sound.
logic
The two parts of the plan were governed by the same logic.
maintain
to maintain prices (= prevent them from falling or rising)
major
There were calls for major changes to the welfare system.
manipulate
manipulate somebody into something/into doing something They managed to manipulate us into agreeing to help.
manual
manual and non-manual workers
margin
in the margin notes scribbled in the margin
mature
She tries to look mature and sophisticated.
maximize
(computing) Maximize the window to full screen.
mechanism
The gun froze, jamming the mechanism.
media
The star has been the focus of intense media attention.
mediate
mediate something to mediate differences/disputes/problems
medical
Seek medical attention as quickly as possible.
medium
Choose medium to large tomatoes.
mental
The experience caused her huge amounts of mental suffering.
method
He's quite critical of modern teaching methods.
migrate
Swallows migrate south in winter.
military
a military coup
minimal
The damage to the car was minimal.
minimize
Costs were minimized by using plastic instead of leather.
minimum
You'll need £200 minimum for your holiday expenses.
ministry
A ministry spokesperson defended the measures.
minor
When you drive a classic car, you expect a few minor problems.
mode
environment-friendly modes of transport
modify
Permissions are arranged so that you can't delete or modify files.
monitor
The laboratory is replete with banks of video monitors.
motive
I have an ulterior motive in offering to help you.
mutual
I don't like her, and I think the feeling is mutual (= she doesn't like me either).
negate
Alcohol negates the effects of the drug.
network
an extensive network of underground tunnels
neutral
I tried to remain neutral.
nevertheless
The old system had its flaws, but nevertheless it was preferable to the new one.
nonetheless
The problems are not serious. Nonetheless, we shall need to tackle them soon.
norm
Older parents seem to be the norm rather than the exception nowadays.
normal
During normal conditions the road is clear of stones and mud.
notion
notion about something I don't have any romantic notions about rural living.
notwithstanding
The bad weather notwithstanding, the event was a great success.
nuclear
nuclear waste/fuel
objective
What are the organization's goals and objectives?
obtain
To obtain the overall score, add up the totals in each column.
obvious
obvious how, what, etc. It was far from obvious how they were going to get off the island.
occupy
Their time is fully occupied with their rigorous training regime.
occur
More deaths occur in winter.
odd
it is odd to do something It's odd to think I will never see her again.
offset
offset something Prices have risen in order to offset the increased cost of materials.
ongoing
Training is part of our ongoing career development program.
option
Failure is not an option.
orient
Neither of them is politically oriented (= interested in politics).
outcome
pending the outcome (formal) He has been suspended from his post pending the outcome of a police investigation.
output
Manufacturing output has increased by 8 per cent.
overall
The overall result is impressive.
overlap
The floor was protected with overlapping sheets of newspaper.
overseas
This was her first overseas trip as prime minister.
panel
You need to remove the roof panel to remove the side panels.
paradigm
The war was a paradigm of the destructive side of human nature.
paragraph
The basic idea is summarized in the following paragraphs.
parallel
parallel to/with something The road and the canal are parallel to each other.
parameter
We had to work within the parameters that had already been established.
participate
Details of the competition are available at all participating stores.
partner
The teacher asked the students to choose a partner for the next activity.
passive
She wore a passive expression on her face as if she didn’t care what happened.
perceive
perceive somebody/something to be/have something They were widely perceived to have been unlucky.
per cent
Shares in the company are up 1.9 percent.
period
Tomorrow will be cold with sunny periods.
persist
+ speech ‘So, did you agree or not?’ he persisted.
perspective
perspective on something The exhibition provides us with a unique perspective on her work.
phase
The semester was divided into three phases of study.
phenomenon
We were hoping science could somehow explain this strange phenomenon.
philosophy
a degree in philosophy
physical
The centre offers activities for everyone, whatever your age or physical condition.
plus1
Membership is 350 dollars per year plus tax.
policy
a policy statement/objective/initiative/document
portion
She could recite large portions of Shakespeare.
pose
to pose a hazard/obstacle/barrier
positive
to make a positive contribution to a discussion
potential
a potential source of conflict
practitioner
a qualified practitioner
precede
in the moments which immediately preceded the earthquake
precise
I can be reasonably precise about the time of the incident.
predict
This figure is predicted to rise to one billion by the year 2015.
predominant
Yellow is the predominant colour this spring in the fashion world.
preliminary
preliminary to something pilot studies preliminary to a full-scale study
presume
presume somebody/something to be/have something I presumed him to be her husband.
previous
Today's teens are more health conscious than previous generations.
primary
primary education
prime
He's the police's prime suspect in this case.
principal
The violins have the principal tune.
principle
She refuses to allow her family to help her as a matter of principle.
prior
She will be unable to attend because of a prior engagement.
priority
The department must start setting priorities.
proceed
He left detailed instructions about the best way to proceed.
process1
in the process I was moving some furniture and I twisted my ankle in the process (= while I was doing it).
professional
I enjoyed boxing but I was never good enough to go professional.
prohibit
prohibit (somebody) doing something The policy prohibits smoking on school grounds.
project
The final term will be devoted to project work.
promote
promote something as something The area is being promoted as a tourist destination.
proportion
A higher proportion of Americans go on to higher education than is the case in Britain.
prospect
in prospect A place in the semi-finals is in prospect (= likely to happen).
protocol
the protocol of diplomatic visits
psychology
She's a professor of psychology at Harvard University.
publication
the publication by the European Commission of an agriculture information pack
publish
Many plays were published anonymously.
purchase
(figurative) Victory was purchased (= achieved) at too great a price.
pursue
He continues to pursue a soft policy on crime.
qualitative
There are qualitative differences between the two products.
quote
quote + speech ‘The man who is tired of London is tired of life,’ he quoted.
radical
This document marks a radical departure from earlier recommendations.
random
She dodged the random items that were on the concrete floor.
range
over a range We have reached agreement over a range of issues.
ratio
The ratio of applications to available places currently stands at 100:1.
rational
There is no rational explanation for his actions.
react
Residents have reacted with fury to the news.
recover
The victim is recovering well at home.
refine
The process of refining oil produces several useful chemicals.
regime
an oppressive/brutal regime
region
throughout the region The plant is found throughout the western region of the country.
register
register somebody to do something 78 per cent reported that they were registered to vote.
regulate
It is up to the regulating authority to put the measures into effect.
reinforce
Success in the talks will reinforce his reputation as an international statesman.
reject
The Government rejected calls for an inquiry.
relax
Sit back and relax with a cup of tea.
release
(figurative) Death released him from his suffering.
relevant
it is relevant to do something It was clearly relevant to consider what effect the proposed works would have on the land.
reluctance
They finally agreed to our terms with a certain reluctance.
rely

remove
Remove the pan from the heat and continue to stir the sauce.
require
require doing something Lentils do not require soaking before cooking.
research
The research findings were published in the Journal of Environmental Quality.
reside
Their passports do not give them the right to reside in Britain.
resolve
resolve itself Be patient and the situation may resolve itself.
resource
Police have had to devote more resources to these cases.
respond
respond with something He responded with a question.
restore
restore something to somebody Peace has now been restored to the area.
restrain
I had to restrain her from hitting out at passers-by.
restrict
Having small children tends to restrict your freedom.
retain
She retained her tennis title for the third year.
reveal
reveal somebody/something as something He has been revealed as a traitor.
revenue
The company's annual revenues rose by 30%.
reverse
It is sometimes possible to arrest or reverse the disease.
revise
I realised that I would have to revise my life plan.
revolution
The country appears to be on the brink of revolution.
rigid
His rigid adherence to the rules made him unpopular.
role
the role of somebody He played the role of Sonny in ‘The Godfather’.
route
People gathered at points along the route to wave and cheer .
scenario
a nightmare scenario
schedule
The countries have yet to set the schedule for the next round of talks.
scheme
The houses have been demolished as part of a major regeneration scheme.
scope
within somebody's scope First try to do something that is within your scope.
section
The library has a large biology section.
sector
the privileged sectors of society
secure
secure somebody/something/yourself something He secured himself a place at law school.
seek
seek for something/somebody (British English) They sought in vain for somewhere to shelter.
select
select from something They could select from a range of choices depending on their interests and skills.
sequence
Her latest book contains a sequence of poems about paintings.
series
the hit comedy series ‘The Big Bang Theory’
sex
Trying to prove that sex differences in behaviour are innate is controversial.
shift
shift workers/work
significant
it is significant that… It is significant that girls generally do better in examinations than boys.
similar
Stir the paint with a piece of wood or something similar.
simulate
The device simulates conditions in space quite closely.
site
The inspector may need to make a site visit.
so-called
How have these so-called improvements helped the local community?
sole
This is the sole means of access to the building.
somewhat
My options are somewhat limited.
source
from a source Funding came from a wide variety of sources.
specific
children with specific learning difficulties (= in one area only)
specify
specify that… The regulations specify that calculators may not be used in the examination.
sphere
The Earth is not a perfect sphere.
stable
Put a book under the table leg to keep it stable.
statistic
statistics on something He should read some of the statistics on economic growth.
status
The company investigated the immigration status of its workers.
straightforward
It's quite straightforward to get here.
strategy
strategy to do something It's all part of an overall strategy to gain promotion.
stress
Stress is often a factor in the development of long-term sickness.
structure
the structure of proteins/DNA
style
I'm surprised he rides a motorbike—I'd have thought big cars were more his style (= what suited him).
submit
Articles should be submitted electronically as email attachments.
subordinate
The monarch is formally subordinate to Parliament.
subsequent
Developments on this issue will be dealt with in a subsequent report.
subsidy
to reduce the level of subsidy
substitute
The local bus service was a poor substitute for their car.
successor
He chose as his successor a relative newcomer to the organization.
sufficient
The salary proved sufficient for his needs.
sum
The team has raised substantial sums for local charities.
summary
in summary In summary, this was a disappointing performance.
supplement
supplement to something Industrial sponsorship is a supplement to government funding.
survey
The results of the survey come as no surprise to us.
survive
survive as something He survived as party leader until his second election defeat.
suspend
be suspended by/on something from something A boat was suspended on wires from the rafters.
sustain
The soil was so badly eroded it could no longer sustain crop production.
symbol
Mandela became a symbol of the anti-apartheid struggle.
tape
Fit the carpet using double-sided tape.
target
We're using social media to communicate with our target customers.
task
It was a challenge to adapt this novel for the screen, but the writer proved himself equal to the task.
team
a team event (= one played by groups of people rather than individual players)
technical
This is a purely technical issue.
technique
technique for doing something Teachers learn various techniques for dealing with problem students.
technology
This technology enables computers to read handwriting.
temporary
More than half the staff are temporary.
tense
She sounded tense and angry.
terminate
to terminate a pregnancy (= to perform or have an abortion)
text
Highlight the area of text on screen and press the ‘delete’ key.
theme
Through sculptures Chen explored themes of illness, exile and cultural difference.
theory
according to a theory According to the theory of relativity, nothing can travel faster than light.
thereby
Regular exercise strengthens the heart, thereby reducing the risk of heart attack.
thesis
Students must submit a thesis on an agreed subject within four years.
topic
She has written about such important topics as race, culture and class.
trace
I have been unable to trace the letter you mentioned.
tradition
His work has earned him a central place in the African American literary tradition.
transfer
Customers still can't easily transfer money between accounts.
transform
transform from something The way we work, play and communicate every day has completely transformed from a decade ago.
transit
transit times
transmit
a short-wave radio that can transmit as well as receive
transport
Good public transport infrastructure is urgently required.
trend
on trend Linen is on trend (= fashionable) again this summer.
trigger
Nuts can trigger off a violent allergic reaction.
ultimate
The ultimate decision lies with the parents.
undergo
The drug is currently undergoing trials in America.
underlie
It is a principle that underlies all the party's policies.
undertake
The company has announced that it will undertake a full investigation into the accident.
uniform
He quickly put on his uniform.
unify
a unified transport system
unique
unique in doing something Saturn's largest moon is unique in having an atmosphere made mostly of nitrogen.
utilize
Vitamin C helps the body utilize the iron present in your body.
valid
They have a valid claim to compensation.
vary
There are a number of routes to the summit, with varying levels of difficulty.
vehicle
rows of parked vehicles
version
This is an edited version of the review.
via
We flew home via Dubai.
violate
to violate international law
virtual
Students will have more access to resources and support, both virtual and physical.
visible
The moon was just visible between the clouds.
vision
He glimpsed something on the edge of his vision.
visual
A driverless vehicle identifies visual cues on the road, such as other cars or traffic signs.
volume
Wait until the dough doubles in volume before kneading it again.
voluntary
(British English) He took voluntary redundancy.
welfare
We are concerned about the child's welfare.
whereas
We thought she was arrogant, whereas in fact she was just very shy.
whereby
They have introduced a new system whereby all employees must undergo regular training.
widespread
The plan received widespread support throughout the country.